look at a few other simple variations
that are easy too so if you look at this
quote here you can see that I pasted the
center of the logs instead of the
novelty print that we were just working
with so here is a four and a half inch
unfinished flower block in the center
and light logs sewn on two sides dark
logs sewn on two sides so basically the
same type of thing that we've sewn
before only using a pieced block in the
center and I want you to look at these
two blocks right here they're the same
block just with a different orientation
and the one thing we talked about with
novelty print is having your your design
always facing the same direction by
where you start sewing your first log
for something like this these logs were
made exactly the same so the orientation
of the first log is on the left side of
the flower in both of these cases but
here you can see that the flower is in a
different orientation and for some
design like this that works perfectly
fine so you don't always have to be
changing your the position of your first
log to keep the orientation the same if
you'd like a design that flows like this
another thing that's a little bit
different about this one is that there's
only two rows of lights and two rows of
darks so there's no real hard and cut
fast rules that you have to follow when
you're making a log cabin you can just
make them whatever size finish block you
want by having you know whatever numbers
tricks you'd like to have on there so
let's look at another one okay for this
quilt you'll notice that there is a
piece star in the center of this log
cabin block here and a little bit
different than we've talked about before
this one doesn't have definite light
side in a definite dark side it's got a
red side and a blue side so a little bit
different from before
and in this block right next to it
here's my log cabin but this time it's
in the center of the piece block as
opposed to the piece Block in the center
where again I have a light side and a
dark side so that more the traditional
log cabin block so here this quilt is
these two different variations here
and you can tell them and I noticed a
hand quilted this one so you can tell
it's a long time ago because don't have
time for hand quilting anymore okay
let's look at another one kind of along
the same lines as the last one this one
has a different star that's pieced in
the centre of the log cabin and again
traditional in that it's light on one
side and dark on the other side but the
difference being here is that there's
squares in the corners of the log cabins
right here so this is more of a chimney
and cornerstone variation of a log cabin
block so that the squares continue in
the star blocks themselves and just work
out to the ends of the the logs but
again light on one side dark on the
other just a variation where the blacks
rotate across the quilt and if you can
see the center block here this is
actually a little log cabin block where
I've got a square in the center but each
of the logs again has a corner stone
sewn in just like these logs only on a
smaller scale it's a smaller scale with
no piece star in the center another
variation that's really easy to do now
all the ones we've talked about so far
have had the same size strips on the
light side and the same size on the dark
side if you look at this variation here
on one side these strips I'll finish it
a half inch and on the other side they
all finish at one inch so the effect of
sewing these blocks together is you'll
end up with lines that look more curved
than straight that's what you'll see
here so that's kind of fun and simple to
do and you'll notice also that there's a
lot more rows of logs there's five rows
on each side as opposed to the three
that we were working with before now
these are just a few blocks that I've
sewn where I've taken one element out of
a traditional block and replaced it with
a log-cabin
so if you kind of look at the log cabin
you can see like a triangle that's
formed in the center so this this star
design could have had a triangle patch
in here and I've replaced it with a log
cabin
the same type of thing in the center of
this block but this variation where you
have a center square and then your logs
are on opposite sides is the courthouse
steps variation of a log cabin so a
little bit different it almost looks
like a quarter square triangle if you
drew diagonal lines to the center of it
so it a little different effect there
and the third one different colorings of
the traditional log cabin but I put the
colors in the log cabin on the opposite
sides of the star points so a little bit
different you can replace parts of your
traditional blocks with log cabins like
these and you'll have to figure the size
of your logs based on the size that you
want your finished patch to be here's
some more variations where I've used the
log cabin block to replace a patch in a
quilt block so if you look at this
square right here this is a traditional
quilt block that would have had maybe
two triangles or a solid square in the
center and I've replaced it with a log
cabin that I've colored half brown to
match one side of the block and half
blue to match the other side so a little
bit different here now we're combining
log cabin blocks with traditional blocks
and this one has the same thing where
I've taken a traditional block like a
bear's paw block that you can see right
here and replace the center square with
a log cabin and this one just a little
bit different instead of having a solid
square in the center I've got a half
square triangle so that all my dark side
looks more like it flows in one triangle
here and then I've just got trying you
know just regular patches here for the
rest of my block
another one using the same thing as a
star quilt here where I've taken the
center patch and used a courthouse steps
variation of the log cabin where the the
patches are added across from each other
and place the colors of the log cabin
opposite colors from the star block so
for the red star points have blue in the
center of the log cabin and the blue
star points have red so it just adds an
interesting variation to your quilt
designs when you can replace an element
in your block with a log cabin and
here's another example same type of
thing here where I've got a log cabin
this is the block the whole block itself
and these log cabin if you had made the
traditional block these would be
triangles in both of these a light
triangle dark triangle to make a block
here so I've got four triangle triangles
that I've replaced with lock cabin
blocks in the center of this block so
you can see it adds some really nice
interest in diversity to your blocks and
something fun to do with your log cabins